README.md, before:

# Randomize.scss

A small collection of functions and mixins to help you make the most out of Sass's built-in `random()` function.

What can you do with it? [Here are](http://codepen.io/mknadler/pen/QwdQBx) [some examples](http://codepen.io/mknadler/pen/rajpJp).

More will be added soon; in the meantime, please feel free to request specific features, make a PR, or [get in touch](https://twitter.com/antimytheme).

Upcoming changes: add warnings/errors to @random-iterate, add options to @random-animate besides nth-child (nth-of-type; manual list of elements), add parameter to @random-animate that allows a value to be passed to a passed-in function (necessary so that the random value is generated inside of the loop).

## How To Use

First, install it, either via `bower install randomize.scss`, `git clone`, or simply copy-and-pasting. I won't judge.

Second, keep in mind that while the functions are all independent, the mixins depend on the functions; it's currently safe to just take a single function from this out-of-context, but the mixins will break if you try to use them without the functions.

Third, check out the documentation below if you run into any problems; if something still isn't working right, please let me know.

###random-between
`random-between( $min, $max, $decimal:false );`

Given a required `$min` and `$max`,  returns a random number inside of that range, inclusive of both `$min` and `$max`.

You can use either a unitless number for $min and $max, like 4 or 931, or numbers with units, like 4px or 10%. If you are using numbers with units, the units must match.

By default, the returned value is in integers. If you want the returned value to be in decimals, pass `true` or `decimal` as a third parameter.

Example usages:

`line-height: random-between(2, 3);`

`font-size: random-between(20px, 34px, decimal);`


###random-hex
`random-hex();`

Returns a random hex color.

Example usage:

`border: 1px solid random-hex();`

###random-rgba
`random-rgba( $multiplier:(1,1,1), $opacity:false);`

Returns a random RGBa value.

Can optionally pass in a list of multipliers and/or an opacity value. 

`$multiplier` accepts a *list* of numbers which may be used to impact the chances of the generated color/s skewing in a certain direction.

The multiplier works because Sass clamps color values to a max of 255; if you pass a multiplier of 5 for red, it will compile to random (255*5) => random(1275), which means a roughly 80% chance of getting a red value of 255.

For grayscale, keep all values very low.

Example usage:

`background: random-rgba((.3,.2,1), .7)`;

###random-value 
Given a list of values, returns one of those values.

Example usage:

<code>$timing-functions: ease, ease-in, ease-in-out, linear;
transition: 3s random-value($timing-functions);</code>

###shuffle
`shuffle($list);`

Given a list, returns that same list, shuffled Fisher-Yates style.

Example usage:

`margin: shuffle(40px 40px 80px 90px)`

###random-animate
`@include random-animate($num-elements, $prop-to-animate, $function-name, $animation-props: 3s ease infinite, $steps:2);`

For a given number of nth-children of a certain element, creates a keyframe and animation for each element which takes advantage of one of the other functions in the library.

Example usages: 
`span { @include random-animate(20, color, random-hex, 4s ease-out infinite alternate, 4); }`


###random-iterate
`@include random-iterate($number-of-items, $property, $function);`

Given a number of elements, a function, and a property, applies that function for that property for each of those elements, using nth-child.

Example usage, given 10 divs:
`div { @include random-iterate(10, background, random-hex); }`

Commit message:

documentation for two new random color functions

README.md, after:

# Randomize.scss

A small collection of functions and mixins to help you make the most out of Sass's built-in `random()` function.

What can you do with it? [Here are](http://codepen.io/mknadler/pen/QwdQBx) [some examples](http://codepen.io/mknadler/pen/rajpJp).

More will be added soon; in the meantime, please feel free to request specific features, make a PR, or [get in touch](https://twitter.com/antimytheme).

Upcoming changes: add warnings/errors to @random-iterate, add options to @random-animate besides nth-child (nth-of-type; manual list of elements), add parameter to @random-animate that allows a value to be passed to a passed-in function (necessary so that the random value is generated inside of the loop).

## How To Use

First, install it, either via `bower install randomize.scss`, `git clone`, or simply copy-and-pasting. I won't judge.

Second, keep in mind that while the functions are all independent, the mixins depend on the functions; it's currently safe to just take a single function from this out-of-context, but the mixins will break if you try to use them without the functions.

Third, check out the documentation below if you run into any problems; if something still isn't working right, please let me know.

###random-between
`random-between( $min, $max, $decimal:false );`

Given a required `$min` and `$max`,  returns a random number inside of that range, inclusive of both `$min` and `$max`.

You can use either a unitless number for $min and $max, like 4 or 931, or numbers with units, like 4px or 10%. If you are using numbers with units, the units must match.

By default, the returned value is in integers. If you want the returned value to be in decimals, pass `true` or `decimal` as a third parameter.

Example usages:

`line-height: random-between(2, 3);`

`font-size: random-between(20px, 34px, decimal);`


###random-hex
`random-hex();`

Returns a random hex color.

Example usage:

`border: 1px solid random-hex();`

###random-rgba
`random-rgba( $multiplier:(1,1,1), $opacity:false);`

Returns a random RGBa value.

Can optionally pass in a list of multipliers and/or an opacity value. 

`$multiplier` accepts a *list* of numbers which may be used to impact the chances of the generated color/s skewing in a certain direction.

The multiplier works because Sass clamps color values to a max of 255; if you pass a multiplier of 5 for red, it will compile to random (255*5) => random(1275), which means a roughly 80% chance of getting a red value of 255.

For grayscale, keep all values very low.

Example usage:

`background: random-rgba((.3,.2,1), .7)`;

###random-color-by-hue
`random-color-by-hue($hue: 270, $opacity: 1)`

Gives you a random color with a hue you choose. Hue and opacity follows the [CSS conventions for hsla colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#hsla()). (Hue should be between 0 and 360, opacity between 0 and 1.)

Example usage:

`background: random-color-by-hue(100);`

###color-with-random-hue
`color-with-random-hue($saturation: 100, $lightness: 50, $opacity: 1)`

The inverse of the above method. Pick a saturation and lightness (between 0 and 100) and let it pick a hue for you. With no arguments will give a completely saturated and opaque random hue with mid lightness. See the [CSS conventions for hsla colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#hsla()).

Example usage:

`background: color-with-random-hue(20, 80, 1);`

###random-value 
Given a list of values, returns one of those values.

Example usage:

<code>$timing-functions: ease, ease-in, ease-in-out, linear;
transition: 3s random-value($timing-functions);</code>

###shuffle
`shuffle($list);`

Given a list, returns that same list, shuffled Fisher-Yates style.

Example usage:

`margin: shuffle(40px 40px 80px 90px)`

###random-animate
`@include random-animate($num-elements, $prop-to-animate, $function-name, $animation-props: 3s ease infinite, $steps:2);`

For a given number of nth-children of a certain element, creates a keyframe and animation for each element which takes advantage of one of the other functions in the library.

Example usages: 
`span { @include random-animate(20, color, random-hex, 4s ease-out infinite alternate, 4); }`


###random-iterate
`@include random-iterate($number-of-items, $property, $function);`

Given a number of elements, a function, and a property, applies that function for that property for each of those elements, using nth-child.

Example usage, given 10 divs:
`div { @include random-iterate(10, background, random-hex); }`
